Nice — fun brief: you want a simple, unique HTML game that makes sense for an ERC-20 token. Below are 6 compact game ideas (with token utility, difficulty, required on-chain actions, and quick UI notes). I’ll also pick the single best choice for fast prototyping and include a minimal integration plan you can use right away.


---

1) Spin-and-Earn (Wheel of Tokens)

What: A colorful wheel the user spins once per X hours to win token prizes (tiny rewards), boosters, or leaderboard points.
Token utility: rewards paid from a pool (treasury) or small burn-fee on spins; you can also require a small token stake to spin (optional).
Complexity: Very low. Great for viral onboarding.
On-chain actions: approve + transferFrom if charging to play; or contract mints/transfers tokens to winners; or central treasury pays winners with gasless meta-tx. For fairness use Chainlink VRF for randomness (optional).
UI notes: simple canvas wheel, big spin button, animated confetti, cool sound. Mobile first.


---

2) Token Garden (Unique & sticky)

What: Users “plant” seeds by staking/burning tokens; seeds grow over time into harvestable yields (tokens or items). Different seeds = different grow times/returns. Social: let users visit friend gardens to water (small social reward).
Token utility: sink (burn/stake) + yield (incentivizes holding and return). Great for tokenomics (deflationary + utility).
Complexity: Medium. Unique and sticky.
On-chain actions: stake tokens into contract (stake), claim yield (claim). Can do most logic off-chain (server tracks growth) and only settle with on-chain claims to save gas. Consider time-locks and anti-abuse.
UI notes: cute graphics, progress bars, harvest animations, daily missions.


---

3) Memory Match with Token Rewards

What: Classic memory card flip game. Completing levels within time gives token rewards and XP. Add token-gated levels (spend small token to unlock a higher-tier board with bigger prize).
Token utility: entry fees for higher tiers; reward payouts.
Complexity: Low. Familiar UX; fast to implement in HTML/CSS/JS.
On-chain actions: token approve + transferFrom for entry fees; server or contract pays winners. For fairness, server validates score and triggers reward claim.
UI notes: neat tile animations, level select, streak meter.


---

4) Micro-Bet Puzzle (Non-predatory variant)

What: Players solve a short puzzle (e.g., sliding puzzle) against a clock. Option A (safe): users pay a tiny token fee that goes to a community pot and top daily solvers split rewards. Option B (no-stake): use tokens only for ranking/boosts.
Token utility: boosts/powerups bought with tokens; optional pot for leaderboards.
Complexity: Medium (leaderboard logic).
On-chain actions: if pot/stakes used, need escrow contract to hold entries and distribute—watch gambling laws. Safer: keep staking opt-in and small.
UI notes: immediate feedback, replay CTA, daily reset.


---

5) Clicker / Upgrade Idle (Tokenized)

What: Idle clicker where clicks or actions generate in-game currency; players spend ERC-20 to buy permanent boosts or cosmetic items.
Token utility: buy upgrades, cosmetics, prestige (burn to prestige). Good long-term retention.
Complexity: Low → Medium depending on features.
On-chain actions: purchases via transferFrom; optional vanity items minted as NFTs (advanced). Use off-chain save + on-chain purchase to save gas.
UI notes: clean HUD, animation on upgrades, offline earnings indicator.


---

6) Social Leaderboard Royale (Stake to Enter — Advanced)

What: Weekly events where users stake tokens to enter; players earn points in-game, top X split the pool. Adds social and competitive heat.
Token utility: main sink and prize pool.
Complexity: High. Legal risk: looks like gambling in some jurisdictions.
On-chain actions: escrow contract to receive stakes, distribution function, verifiable scoring on-chain or via secure oracle.
UI notes: countdowns, prize pool display, player profiles.


---

My pick (best for simple + unique): Token Garden or Spin-and-Earn

If you want fast prototype + viral, go Spin-and-Earn. You can build a working HTML + JS demo in hours, minimal smart contract work, immediate token utility, great for onboarding.

If you want something unique that encourages holding / social play, go Token Garden. More fun and sticky, slightly more work.


For your first build I recommend Spin-and-Earn to validate UX and token mechanics — then expand to Token Garden once you have users.


---

Minimal implementation plan (Spin Wheel — front → chain)

1. Frontend: plain index.html + styles.css + app.js. Use Canvas or CSS for wheel. Use Ethers.js to connect to MetaMask.


2. Smart contract (simple): rewardPool contract with functions:

depositRewards(uint256 amount) — admin deposits tokens to the pool.

spinAllowed(address user) — optional cooldown check.

payWinner(address to, uint256 amount) — callable by backend or validated signature. (Or keep no contract and have server pay via a hot wallet — less ideal for trust.)



3. Flow (trustless-ish):

User connects wallet.

Clicks spin → frontend animates.

Frontend requests a random outcome from a server (or Chainlink VRF if trustless).

Server returns signed outcome (server signs {user, outcome, nonce}), frontend calls claimSignedReward(signature) on the reward contract which verifies signature and pays out tokens (pre-funded). This avoids storing heavy logic on-chain while keeping payout verifiable.



4. Tools: Ethers.js (or web3.js), Node.js backend (optional), Chainlink VRF (optional), MetaMask on client.




---

Quick code sketch (how to call ERC-20 for a paid spin)

(This is pseudocode — short and safe.)

// using ethers.js — user wants to pay 10 tokens to spin
const tokenContract = new ethers.Contract(tokenAddress, erc20Abi, signer);
const gameContract = new ethers.Contract(gameAddress, gameAbi, signer);

// user approves game contract to take 10 tokens
await tokenContract.approve(gameAddress, ethers.utils.parseUnits("10", decimals));

// call game contract to enter
await gameContract.enterSpin(ethers.utils.parseUnits("10", decimals));

On the contract side enterSpin would transferFrom(msg.sender, address(this), amount) then trigger logic for spin and payout.


---

Security & legal notes

Don’t implement real-money gambling without legal review. If users stake to win tokens with monetary value, check local laws.

Use randomness best practices — server randomness is fine to start but consider Chainlink VRF or server-signed outcomes + on-chain claim for fairness.

Protect against replay (use nonces), reentrancy, and front-running. Keep prize pool funded and limit per-user wins if needed.



---

If you want, I can:

Build a minimal HTML/JS spin wheel prototype that connects to MetaMask and shows how to approve + enterSpin (no server, local demo), or

Sketch the Token Garden UI + minimal smart contract ABI and sample front-end.
